doc/index.rst, before:

.. toctree::
   :hidden:
   :maxdepth: 1

   examples
   developer
   plantweb/plantweb

========
Plantweb
========

.. container:: float-right

   .. image:: _static/images/logo.png

Plantweb is a project that provides a command line interface, Sphinx_
directives and an API that allows to render powerful plain text UML diagrams,
ASCII diagrams and complex graphs.

It is a Python client for the PlantUML_ server and thus it can render
PlantUML_, Graphviz_ and Ditaa_ diagrams without the need to install them.

Check out the :doc:`Examples Gallery <examples>`.

Plantweb features a local cache that prevents requesting the server for
previously rendered diagrams, speeding up building documentation with lots of
diagrams.

Finally, being pure Python, non-local rendering, Plantweb is an excellent way
to display and render PlantUML_, Graphviz_ and Ditaa_ diagrams in ReadTheDocs_
published documentation.

In particular, Ditaa_ rendering is particularly usefull when using ASCII
drawing tools like asciiflow_.

.. _Sphinx: http://www.sphinx-doc.org/
.. _PlantUML: http://plantuml.com/
.. _Graphviz: http://www.graphviz.org/
.. _Ditaa: http://ditaa.sourceforge.net/
.. _ReadTheDocs: http://readthedocs.org/
.. _asciiflow: http://asciiflow.com/

.. contents::
   :local:


Installation
============

    sudo pip3 install plantweb


Usage
=====

Command Line Interface
----------------------

If the content of your file is wrapped by ``@startxxx``, ``@endxxx`` then
Plantweb is capable of determining the engine to use.

Options are:

===============  =============  ========
    Opening         Closure      Engine
===============  =============  ========
``@startuml``    ``@enduml``    plantuml
``@startdot``    ``@enddot``    graphviz
``@startditaa``  ``@endditaa``  ditaa
===============  =============  ========

For example, the following Graphviz file ``mydotfile.dot``:

::

   @startdot
   digraph one_node_graph {
      node1 -> node2 -> node3
   }
   @enddot

Can be rendered with:

::

   user@host:~$ plantweb mydotfile.dot

.. note::

   File extensions are irrelevant for Plantweb.

If for some reason your files lack the ``@startxxx/@endxxx`` wrapper you can
still render the file by specifying the engine:

::

   user@host:~$ plantweb --engine=graphviz unwrappeddotfile.dot

Complete options:

::

   user@host:~$ plantweb --help
   usage: plantweb [-h] [-v] [--version]
                   [--engine {auto,plantuml,graphviz,ditaa}]
                   [--format {auto,svg,png}] [--server SERVER] [--no-cache]
                   [--cache-dir CACHE_DIR]
                   sources [sources ...]

   Python client for the PlantUML server

   positional arguments:
     sources               source files to render

   optional arguments:
     -h, --help            show this help message and exit
     -v, --verbose         increase verbosity level
     --version             show program's version number and exit
     --engine {auto,plantuml,graphviz,ditaa}
                           engine to use to render diagram
     --format {auto,svg,png}
                           diagram export format
     --server SERVER       server to use for rendering
     --no-cache            do not use cache
     --cache-dir CACHE_DIR
                           directory to store cached renders


Sphinx Directives
-----------------

.. versionadded:: 0.4.0

Plantweb provides 3 Sphinx_ directives for rendering diagrams:

``.. uml::``
    Allows to render the content using the PlantUML_ engine.

    .. warning::

       This directive overrides the one provided by ``sphinxcontrib.plantuml``.

``.. graph::``
    Allows to render the content using the Graphviz_ engine.

    .. warning::

       This directive overrides the one provided by ``sphinx.ext.graphviz``.

``.. diagram::``
    Allows to render the content using the Ditaa_ engine.

.. note::

   When using the directives it is NOT recommended nor required to use the
   ``@startxxx`` / ``@endxxx`` tags.

For example:

.. code-block:: rst

   .. uml::

      Alice -> Bob: Authentication Request
      Bob --> Alice: Authentication Response

      Alice -> Bob: Another authentication Request
      Alice <-- Bob: another authentication Response

The above will render:

.. uml::

   Alice -> Bob: Authentication Request
   Bob --> Alice: Authentication Response

   Alice -> Bob: Another authentication Request
   Alice <-- Bob: another authentication Response

.. seealso::

   Check out the :doc:`examples`.

.. versionadded:: 1.0.0

Directives also support specifying a path to a file to load the content.

For example:

.. code-block:: rst

   .. uml:: my_uml_diagram.uml

The above will load the file ``my_uml_diagram.uml`` with the content to be
rendered.

You may specify a relative path from the current document or you may specify an
absolute path from where the ``conf.py`` like this:

.. code-block:: rst

   .. uml:: /diagrams/my_uml_diagram.uml

The above will load the file from the Sphinx documentation root.


Options
+++++++

``alt``: text
    Alternate text: a short description of the image, displayed by
    applications that cannot display images, when the user over the image with
    the cursor or spoken by applications for visually impaired users.

``align``: "left", "center", or "right"
    The alignment of the image. It control an image's horizontal alignment,
    allowing the image to float and have the text flow around it.

    .. warning::

       This behavior could be changed by your theme.

``target``: text (URI or reference name)
    Makes the image into a hyperlink reference ("clickable"). The option
    argument may be a URI (relative or absolute), or a reference name with
    underscore suffix (e.g. ``name_``).

For example:

.. code-block:: rst

   .. uml::
      :alt: This is a nice UML diagram. Indeed.
      :align: left
      :target: #options

      actor Foo1
      boundary Foo2
      control Foo3
      entity Foo4
      database Foo5
      Foo1 -> Foo2 : To boundary
      Foo1 -> Foo3 : To control
      Foo1 -> Foo4 : To entity
      Foo1 -> Foo5 : To database

Render as:

.. uml::
   :alt: This is a nice UML diagram. Indeed.
   :align: left
   :target: #options

   actor Foo1
   boundary Foo2
   control Foo3
   entity Foo4
   database Foo5
   Foo1 -> Foo2 : To boundary
   Foo1 -> Foo3 : To control
   Foo1 -> Foo4 : To entity
   Foo1 -> Foo5 : To database

.. warning::

   Plantweb directives doesn't have any ``height``, ``width`` or ``scale``
   options. In this age of responsive design there shouldn't be the need to
   define presentational values in the content. Also, being diagrams, you
   should always maximize viewing space.

   If your images overflow, override your theme or use a theme that already
   supports responsive images:

   .. code-block:: css

      /* Responsive images */
      object[type="image/svg+xml"], img {
          max-width: 100%;
          height: auto;
      }


Sphinx Setup
++++++++++++

To enable the directives add ``'plantweb.directive'`` to your extensions in
your Sphinx's ``conf.py``:

.. code-block:: python

   extensions = [
       # ... More extensions,
       'plantweb.directive'
   ]

If you want to configure the extension you can create the variable
``plantweb_defaults`` in your Sphinx's ``conf.py``:

.. code-block:: python

   # Plantweb configuration
   plantweb_defaults = {
       'server': 'http://myserver.com/plantuml/'
   }

Please note that the above configuration will have the higher priority as
explained in :ref:`defaults`. Nevertheless the defaults resolution mechanism
is still considered, that is, the ``.plantwebrc`` files will still override
other keys if present.


Python API
----------

.. currentmodule:: plantweb.render

There are 2 main functions, both Python 2.7 and 3.4 compatible:

#. :func:`render` allows to render content directly.

   .. code-block:: python

      from plantweb.render import render


      CONTENT = """
      actor Foo1
      boundary Foo2
      control Foo3
      entity Foo4
      database Foo5
      Foo1 -> Foo2 : To boundary
      Foo1 -> Foo3 : To control
      Foo1 -> Foo4 : To entity
      Foo1 -> Foo5 : To database
      """


      if __name__ == '__main__':

          print('==> INPUT:')
          print(CONTENT)

          output = render(
              CONTENT,
              engine='plantuml',
              format='svg',
              cacheopts={
                  'use_cache': False
              }
          )

          print('==> OUTPUT:')
          print(output)

#. :func:`render_file` allows to render files.

   .. code-block:: python

      from plantweb.render import render_file


      CONTENT = """
      digraph finite_state_machine {
          rankdir=LR;
          size="8,5"
          node [shape = doublecircle]; LR_0 LR_3 LR_4 LR_8;
          node [shape = circle];
          LR_0 -> LR_2 [ label = "SS(B)" ];
          LR_0 -> LR_1 [ label = "SS(S)" ];
          LR_1 -> LR_3 [ label = "S($end)" ];
          LR_2 -> LR_6 [ label = "SS(b)" ];
          LR_2 -> LR_5 [ label = "SS(a)" ];
          LR_2 -> LR_4 [ label = "S(A)" ];
          LR_5 -> LR_7 [ label = "S(b)" ];
          LR_5 -> LR_5 [ label = "S(a)" ];
          LR_6 -> LR_6 [ label = "S(b)" ];
          LR_6 -> LR_5 [ label = "S(a)" ];
          LR_7 -> LR_8 [ label = "S(b)" ];
          LR_7 -> LR_5 [ label = "S(a)" ];
          LR_8 -> LR_6 [ label = "S(b)" ];
          LR_8 -> LR_5 [ label = "S(a)" ];
      }
      """


      if __name__ == '__main__':

          infile = 'mygraph.dot'
          with open(infile, 'wb') as fd:
              fd.write(CONTENT.encode('utf-8'))

          print('==> INPUT FILE:')
          print(infile)

          outfile = render_file(
              infile,
              renderopts={
                  'engine': 'graphviz',
                  'format': 'png'
              },
              cacheopts={
                  'use_cache': False
              }
          )

          print('==> OUTPUT FILE:')
          print(outfile)

.. _defaults:

Overriding Defaults
===================

.. currentmodule:: plantweb.defaults

.. versionadded:: 0.3.0

The defaults defined in :data:`DEFAULT_CONFIG` will be used unless overridden
by the user.

To set a different default configuration create a JSON file ``.plantwebrc``
in your git repository root or in your home, as defined in
:data:`DEFAULTS_PROVIDERS`.

For example:

.. code-block:: json

   {
       "server": "http://mydomain.com/plantuml/",
       "cache_dir": "~/.cache/plantweb",
       "engine": "plantuml",
       "format": "svg",
       "use_cache": true
   }


.. seealso::

   :ref:`server`.


.. _server:

PlantUML Server
===============

If you require:

- Guaranteed uptime.
- To render confidential diagrams.
- To speed up rendering in your intranet.
- Or you simply want to be nice and unload the public server.

Please consider installing a PlantUML server in your local network or private
server:

- http://plantuml.com/server.html

The `public PlantUML server <http://plantuml.com/plantuml/>`_ used by Plantweb
by default is run by a group of volunteers for pure love.

Please consider `donating <http://plantuml.com/>`_ to the project through
Paypal, Patreon or Flattr.


Development
===========

- :doc:`Developer Guide. <developer>`
- :doc:`Internal Documentation Reference. <plantweb/plantweb>`
- `Project repository. <https://github.com/carlos-jenkins/plantweb>`_


TODO
====

- We should be able to monkey patch ``sphinx.ext.inheritance_diagram`` that
  also uses Graphviz to use Plantweb.


License
=======

.. code-block:: text

   Copyright (C) 2016 Carlos Jenkins

   Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
   you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
   You may obtain a copy of the License at

       http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
   software distributed under the License is distributed on an
   "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
   KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
   specific language governing permissions and limitations
   under the License.

Logo derived from work by VisciousSpeed_ under Public Domain.

.. _VisciousSpeed: https://openclipart.org/detail/126331/plant-and-vase-planter

Commit message:

new: dev: Added documentation on how to run the PlantUML server using Docker.

doc/index.rst, after:

.. toctree::
   :hidden:
   :maxdepth: 1

   examples
   developer
   plantweb/plantweb

========
Plantweb
========

.. container:: float-right

   .. image:: _static/images/logo.png

Plantweb is a project that provides a command line interface, Sphinx_
directives and an API that allows to render powerful plain text UML diagrams,
ASCII diagrams and complex graphs.

It is a Python client for the PlantUML_ server and thus it can render
PlantUML_, Graphviz_ and Ditaa_ diagrams without the need to install them.

Check out the :doc:`Examples Gallery <examples>`.

Plantweb features a local cache that prevents requesting the server for
previously rendered diagrams, speeding up building documentation with lots of
diagrams.

Finally, being pure Python, non-local rendering, Plantweb is an excellent way
to display and render PlantUML_, Graphviz_ and Ditaa_ diagrams in ReadTheDocs_
published documentation.

In particular, Ditaa_ rendering is particularly usefull when using ASCII
drawing tools like asciiflow_.

.. _Sphinx: http://www.sphinx-doc.org/
.. _PlantUML: http://plantuml.com/
.. _Graphviz: http://www.graphviz.org/
.. _Ditaa: http://ditaa.sourceforge.net/
.. _ReadTheDocs: http://readthedocs.org/
.. _asciiflow: http://asciiflow.com/

.. contents::
   :local:


Installation
============

    sudo pip3 install plantweb


Usage
=====

Command Line Interface
----------------------

If the content of your file is wrapped by ``@startxxx``, ``@endxxx`` then
Plantweb is capable of determining the engine to use.

Options are:

===============  =============  ========
    Opening         Closure      Engine
===============  =============  ========
``@startuml``    ``@enduml``    plantuml
``@startdot``    ``@enddot``    graphviz
``@startditaa``  ``@endditaa``  ditaa
===============  =============  ========

For example, the following Graphviz file ``mydotfile.dot``:

::

   @startdot
   digraph one_node_graph {
      node1 -> node2 -> node3
   }
   @enddot

Can be rendered with:

::

   user@host:~$ plantweb mydotfile.dot

.. note::

   File extensions are irrelevant for Plantweb.

If for some reason your files lack the ``@startxxx/@endxxx`` wrapper you can
still render the file by specifying the engine:

::

   user@host:~$ plantweb --engine=graphviz unwrappeddotfile.dot

Complete options:

::

   user@host:~$ plantweb --help
   usage: plantweb [-h] [-v] [--version]
                   [--engine {auto,plantuml,graphviz,ditaa}]
                   [--format {auto,svg,png}] [--server SERVER] [--no-cache]
                   [--cache-dir CACHE_DIR]
                   sources [sources ...]

   Python client for the PlantUML server

   positional arguments:
     sources               source files to render

   optional arguments:
     -h, --help            show this help message and exit
     -v, --verbose         increase verbosity level
     --version             show program's version number and exit
     --engine {auto,plantuml,graphviz,ditaa}
                           engine to use to render diagram
     --format {auto,svg,png}
                           diagram export format
     --server SERVER       server to use for rendering
     --no-cache            do not use cache
     --cache-dir CACHE_DIR
                           directory to store cached renders


Sphinx Directives
-----------------

.. versionadded:: 0.4.0

Plantweb provides 3 Sphinx_ directives for rendering diagrams:

``.. uml::``
    Allows to render the content using the PlantUML_ engine.

    .. warning::

       This directive overrides the one provided by ``sphinxcontrib.plantuml``.

``.. graph::``
    Allows to render the content using the Graphviz_ engine.

    .. warning::

       This directive overrides the one provided by ``sphinx.ext.graphviz``.

``.. diagram::``
    Allows to render the content using the Ditaa_ engine.

.. note::

   When using the directives it is NOT recommended nor required to use the
   ``@startxxx`` / ``@endxxx`` tags.

For example:

.. code-block:: rst

   .. uml::

      Alice -> Bob: Authentication Request
      Bob --> Alice: Authentication Response

      Alice -> Bob: Another authentication Request
      Alice <-- Bob: another authentication Response

The above will render:

.. uml::

   Alice -> Bob: Authentication Request
   Bob --> Alice: Authentication Response

   Alice -> Bob: Another authentication Request
   Alice <-- Bob: another authentication Response

.. seealso::

   Check out the :doc:`examples`.

.. versionadded:: 1.0.0

Directives also support specifying a path to a file to load the content.

For example:

.. code-block:: rst

   .. uml:: my_uml_diagram.uml

The above will load the file ``my_uml_diagram.uml`` with the content to be
rendered.

You may specify a relative path from the current document or you may specify an
absolute path from where the ``conf.py`` like this:

.. code-block:: rst

   .. uml:: /diagrams/my_uml_diagram.uml

The above will load the file from the Sphinx documentation root.


Options
+++++++

``alt``: text
    Alternate text: a short description of the image, displayed by
    applications that cannot display images, when the user over the image with
    the cursor or spoken by applications for visually impaired users.

``align``: "left", "center", or "right"
    The alignment of the image. It control an image's horizontal alignment,
    allowing the image to float and have the text flow around it.

    .. warning::

       This behavior could be changed by your theme.

``target``: text (URI or reference name)
    Makes the image into a hyperlink reference ("clickable"). The option
    argument may be a URI (relative or absolute), or a reference name with
    underscore suffix (e.g. ``name_``).

For example:

.. code-block:: rst

   .. uml::
      :alt: This is a nice UML diagram. Indeed.
      :align: left
      :target: #options

      actor Foo1
      boundary Foo2
      control Foo3
      entity Foo4
      database Foo5
      Foo1 -> Foo2 : To boundary
      Foo1 -> Foo3 : To control
      Foo1 -> Foo4 : To entity
      Foo1 -> Foo5 : To database

Render as:

.. uml::
   :alt: This is a nice UML diagram. Indeed.
   :align: left
   :target: #options

   actor Foo1
   boundary Foo2
   control Foo3
   entity Foo4
   database Foo5
   Foo1 -> Foo2 : To boundary
   Foo1 -> Foo3 : To control
   Foo1 -> Foo4 : To entity
   Foo1 -> Foo5 : To database

.. warning::

   Plantweb directives doesn't have any ``height``, ``width`` or ``scale``
   options. In this age of responsive design there shouldn't be the need to
   define presentational values in the content. Also, being diagrams, you
   should always maximize viewing space.

   If your images overflow, override your theme or use a theme that already
   supports responsive images:

   .. code-block:: css

      /* Responsive images */
      object[type="image/svg+xml"], img {
          max-width: 100%;
          height: auto;
      }


Sphinx Setup
++++++++++++

To enable the directives add ``'plantweb.directive'`` to your extensions in
your Sphinx's ``conf.py``:

.. code-block:: python

   extensions = [
       # ... More extensions,
       'plantweb.directive'
   ]

If you want to configure the extension you can create the variable
``plantweb_defaults`` in your Sphinx's ``conf.py``:

.. code-block:: python

   # Plantweb configuration
   plantweb_defaults = {
       'server': 'http://myserver.com/plantuml/'
   }

Please note that the above configuration will have the higher priority as
explained in :ref:`defaults`. Nevertheless the defaults resolution mechanism
is still considered, that is, the ``.plantwebrc`` files will still override
other keys if present.


Python API
----------

.. currentmodule:: plantweb.render

There are 2 main functions, both Python 2.7 and 3.4 compatible:

#. :func:`render` allows to render content directly.

   .. code-block:: python

      from plantweb.render import render


      CONTENT = """
      actor Foo1
      boundary Foo2
      control Foo3
      entity Foo4
      database Foo5
      Foo1 -> Foo2 : To boundary
      Foo1 -> Foo3 : To control
      Foo1 -> Foo4 : To entity
      Foo1 -> Foo5 : To database
      """


      if __name__ == '__main__':

          print('==> INPUT:')
          print(CONTENT)

          output = render(
              CONTENT,
              engine='plantuml',
              format='svg',
              cacheopts={
                  'use_cache': False
              }
          )

          print('==> OUTPUT:')
          print(output)

#. :func:`render_file` allows to render files.

   .. code-block:: python

      from plantweb.render import render_file


      CONTENT = """
      digraph finite_state_machine {
          rankdir=LR;
          size="8,5"
          node [shape = doublecircle]; LR_0 LR_3 LR_4 LR_8;
          node [shape = circle];
          LR_0 -> LR_2 [ label = "SS(B)" ];
          LR_0 -> LR_1 [ label = "SS(S)" ];
          LR_1 -> LR_3 [ label = "S($end)" ];
          LR_2 -> LR_6 [ label = "SS(b)" ];
          LR_2 -> LR_5 [ label = "SS(a)" ];
          LR_2 -> LR_4 [ label = "S(A)" ];
          LR_5 -> LR_7 [ label = "S(b)" ];
          LR_5 -> LR_5 [ label = "S(a)" ];
          LR_6 -> LR_6 [ label = "S(b)" ];
          LR_6 -> LR_5 [ label = "S(a)" ];
          LR_7 -> LR_8 [ label = "S(b)" ];
          LR_7 -> LR_5 [ label = "S(a)" ];
          LR_8 -> LR_6 [ label = "S(b)" ];
          LR_8 -> LR_5 [ label = "S(a)" ];
      }
      """


      if __name__ == '__main__':

          infile = 'mygraph.dot'
          with open(infile, 'wb') as fd:
              fd.write(CONTENT.encode('utf-8'))

          print('==> INPUT FILE:')
          print(infile)

          outfile = render_file(
              infile,
              renderopts={
                  'engine': 'graphviz',
                  'format': 'png'
              },
              cacheopts={
                  'use_cache': False
              }
          )

          print('==> OUTPUT FILE:')
          print(outfile)

.. _defaults:

Overriding Defaults
===================

.. currentmodule:: plantweb.defaults

.. versionadded:: 0.3.0

The defaults defined in :data:`DEFAULT_CONFIG` will be used unless overridden
by the user.

To set a different default configuration create a JSON file ``.plantwebrc``
in your git repository root or in your home, as defined in
:data:`DEFAULTS_PROVIDERS`.

For example:

.. code-block:: json

   {
       "server": "http://mydomain.com/plantuml/",
       "cache_dir": "~/.cache/plantweb",
       "engine": "plantuml",
       "format": "svg",
       "use_cache": true
   }


.. seealso::

   :ref:`server`.


.. _server:

PlantUML Server
===============

If you require:

- Guaranteed uptime.
- To render confidential diagrams.
- To speed up rendering in your intranet.
- Or you simply want to be nice and unload the public server.

Please consider running a PlantUML server in your local network or private
server. The easiest way is to do it is using the official
`PlantUML Docker image <https://hub.docker.com/r/plantuml/plantuml-server/>`_:

.. code-block:: sh

   docker pull plantuml/plantuml-server
   docker run --detach --publish 8080:8080 plantuml/plantuml-server

For more information about the PlantUML server visit:

- http://plantuml.com/server.html

The `public PlantUML server <http://plantuml.com/plantuml/>`_ used by Plantweb
by default is run by a group of volunteers for pure love.

Please consider `donating <http://plantuml.com/>`_ to the project through
Paypal, Patreon or Flattr.


Development
===========

- :doc:`Developer Guide. <developer>`
- :doc:`Internal Documentation Reference. <plantweb/plantweb>`
- `Project repository. <https://github.com/carlos-jenkins/plantweb>`_


TODO
====

- We should be able to monkey patch ``sphinx.ext.inheritance_diagram`` that
  also uses Graphviz to use Plantweb.


License
=======

.. code-block:: text

   Copyright (C) 2016 Carlos Jenkins

   Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
   you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
   You may obtain a copy of the License at

       http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
   software distributed under the License is distributed on an
   "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
   KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
   specific language governing permissions and limitations
   under the License.

Logo derived from work by VisciousSpeed_ under Public Domain.

.. _VisciousSpeed: https://openclipart.org/detail/126331/plant-and-vase-planter
